# 1. Project organization

Develop using a system the most similar to the environment where it will be
running in production. This will most probably translate that you need to use a
Linux operating system on your workstation, since probably your code will end up
running in a Linux server when you'll publish it in the cloud. OSX and Windows
are nice desktop operating system for the regular user, but sooner than later
you'll find some frustrating edge cases in your day-to-day, specially regarding
automating tasks.

## Node.js conventions

> **TL;DR**
>
> - Don't reinvent the wheel, if there's an standard, follow it.

## Updated versions

> **TL;DR**
>
> - Keep updated all your system: operating system, Node.js and dependencies.

Having an updated system (specially in your production server) has several
advantages, like having available new languages and libraries features that help
to have a cleaner and safer code and also allow to remove nasty hacks (this
happens specially when using old versions of `npm`) or remove incompatibilities
issues, but more important, they include bug fixes and security and performance
improvements.

Keep informed when new versions will be available and install and test them as
soon as they are released to catch some incompatibilities. You should try to
update them to the latest available major version. If that's not possible due to
incompatibilities or features removal, at least to the latest available minor or
patch version, but **never** use an unmaintained version, or code that depend on
unmaintained dependencies. For your project dependencies, you can use tools like
[npm-check-updates](https://github.com/tjunnone/npm-check-updates) and/or
external services like [Greenkeeper](https://greenkeeper.io/) or
[Dependabot](https://dependabot.com/), this last one being now part of Github.
Be sure to have a good tests battery to detect if a dependencies upgrade break
your code and be able to fix it in advance.

```sh
# Is Ubuntu LTS or higher?
cat /etc/issue

# Is Node.js LTS or higher?
node -v

# Are dependencies updated?
npx npm-check-updates --semverLevel major
# npx npm-check-updates --semverLevel major -u  # FIX

# Is Dependabot configured?
test -d .dependabot
```

If possible, in your development machine use beta or also alpha versions of the
operating system or the libraries and dependencies to identify early any problem
or incompatibility that could surface. Use in production always the latest
available stable version, but latest LTS versions are ok if there are some
versions stability policy in your company. Development versions are ok too if a
feature is important and its code is mature enought. In any case, update as soon
as a new stable version (or a new LTS, if that's the case) is available.

## Transpilation

If you are writting your project source code not in javascript but with other
language or using non-standard features, you need transpile (*translate
compile*) with Babel or some other tool to make it executable by Node.js or by
the browser. This includes when you are building a webapp, where you need to
bundle and minify all your javascript and CSS files to get them ready to
publish. The standard way for this is to add a `build` script to `package.json`
file, so it's possible to build them (usually generating code only for
development stage) just by executing `npm run build`.

```sh
# Has package.json file a prepare script?
npm -c "require('package.json').scripts.build != null"
```

One good idea, specially for transpiled libraries, is to build them when
installing from a git repository. This way, in case you need to do some changes
from the original source code (for example, you've found a bug), you can point
your git repository as dependency and its code will be transpiled automatically.
To do so, add a new `prepare` script entry that simply call your build/transpile
script. This has the drawback that you would need to add the build dependencies
in the `dependencies` field, but alternatively you can be able to define them as
`devDependencies` field of the parent project root `package.json` file.

```sh
# Has package.json file a prepare script pointing to build script?
npm -c "require('package.json').scripts.prepare === 'npm run build'"
```

Use the convention folder `src/` to store the original source code needs to be
transpiled with Babel or any other tool. If that's the case, then config your
build scripts to store the transpiled files in a clean `lib/` folder (**never**
mix actual sources with generated code), or if it makes sense for your project
(for example, when it's a collection of components that could be used
independently), then store the transpiled files to the project root and use the
default `index.js` file instead and add the `src/` folder to the `.npmignore`
file to publishhave a clean package.

```sh
# Does code needs transpilation?
npm -c "require('package.json').devDependencies['babel-cli']"

# Does src/ folder exists?
test -d src
```
