## 1. `package.json`

```sh
# Has package.json file all the required fields?
npx package-json-validator
```



package version
- [ ] version is stick to `1.0.0`, should use semantic version

- [ ] `keywords` field is not a list of keywords
- [ ] `author` field is set to a single developer. For teams, correct is set it
      to the team itself and use `contributors` field to show actual developers



Main manifest and description file for the npm package. There are some fields
that properly configured improve the quality and flexibility of the package:

- `description`: define the purpose of the package in a single sentence for
  quick reference. Try to fit it in 50 or 60 characters.

  ```sh
  # Is description field long enought?
  npm -c "require('package.json').description.length > 10"

  # Can description field be shown in a single line?
  npm -c "require('package.json').description.length < 60"
  ```

- `version`: version of the package. This is usually misconfigured although is
  very important. Keep it updated each time a new release or milestone is done,
  both for reference and to have dependencies working correctly. Ideally, you
  should follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) rules.

  ```sh
  # Has version field the default value?
  npm -c "require('package.json').version !== '1.0.0'"

  # Has version field a valid semver string?
  npx semver `npm -c "require('package.json').version"`
  ```

- `author` and `contributors`: provide some info about the developer of the
  module. When it's a single coder, only `author` is used for the original
  author and `contributors` is left for third-party coders, but when working on
  an organization, `author` is used to define the organization name and URL and
  `contributors` is used to define the coders of the package, being the first
  one in the list the original author and/or main maintainer of the package.

  ```sh
  # Is author field defined?
  npm -c "require('package.json').author.length"

  # Is contributors field defined?
  npm -c "require('package.json').contributors.length"
  ```

- `license`: license of the package. By default `npm` set this field to the
  permissive open source [ISC](https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC) license,
  that allow to do anything with the code as far as a reference to the original
  author is included. This license easily fits in the way the Node.js ecosystem
  works, but could lead to legal issues to corporate and privative code. If this
  license doesn't fit the actual status of your code, you should fix it soon.

  ```sh
  # Has license field the default value?
  npm -c "require('package.json').license !== 'ISC'"
  ```

- `private`: indicate if the module should not be published to public package
  registries, like [Github registry](https://github.com/features/packages) or
  [npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com).

  ```sh
  # Is project private?
  npm -c "require('package.json').private === true"
  ```

- `dependencies` and `devDependencies`: libraries and packages needed by the
  package. These are the **most important fields** of all the file, and you
  should pay attention to have them updated all the time. Other usual problem is
  to mix packages defined in `dependencies` and `devDependencies` fields. First
  one must define all the dependencies needed to use the package in production,
  including needed dependencies to build it in the target machine, while the
  latest one must include *only* the dependencies needed during its development
  like testing tools or transpilers.

  ```sh
  # Are all runtime project dependencies defined?
  npx eslint --no-eslintrc \
    --rule '"import/no-extraneous-dependencies": "error"' .

  # Has dependencies field no development dependencies?
  npm -c "!Object.keys(require('package.json').dependencies).includes('babel-cli')"
  ```

  If a package includes an executable that requires some dependencies like an
  arguments parser or terminal coloring, they can be added in the `dependencies`
  field too, but usually the
  [recommended](https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/3739#issuecomment-22076022)
  way is to move that executable to an external package (named by convention
  with a `-cli` suffix), lefting the original one as a `require()`-able
  library-only package.

  ```sh
  # Has server.js file other dependencies than the module itself?
  grep require server.js | wc -l
  ```

- `bin`: this field describe one or several executable files that will be used
  as CLI commands, and will be available in the system path when running them
  using `npm`. When having a single CLI command, it's good to point it to the
  standard `server.js` file, and when having several ones, it's best to have
  them stored in the `bin/` folder and add entries to all of them in this field.

  ```sh
  # Is server.js the package main binary?
  npm -c "require('package.json').bin === 'server.js'"

  # Does bin/ folder exists?
  test -d bin
  ```

- `scripts`: this field store shell commands that can be executed by using the
  `npm` CLI tool, using `npm run <script name>`, with the addition of having the
  executable files from `bin` field already in the system path. The most
  important ones are `start` (that's the standard way to run Node.js
  applications, and by default it makes use of the `server.js` file) and `test`
  (that's the standard way to run tests). You can add your own scripts here too,
  so in most cases there's no need to use external tasks runners like `gulp` or
  `grunt`, or have ad-hoc scripts in the repo. In case you need them, or the
  commands to be used are a bit complex, store them in shell script files or
  javascript executable files, store them in a `scripts` folder, and just set
  the `scripts` field to exec them.

  ```sh
  # Has project tests?
  npm -c "require('package.json').scripts.test != null"

  # Is there any skipped test?
  npx eslint --no-eslintrc --rule '"jest/no-disabled-tests": "error"' .

  # Are tests passing successfully?
  npm test

  # Does tests generate coverage info?
  test -d coverage
  # jest --coverage  # FIX

  # Is tests coverage greater than 90%?

  # Is there a scripts folder?
  test -d scripts
  ```
