# 1. Code organization

## Config

> **TL;DR**
>
> - Access config from a single place, propagate it as arguments.

Your components configuration should not be fetch using side channels or side
effects, this make it more difficult to test them and to follow the flow of the
data, and also don't allow to split and modularize your code. Instead, load all
your project config from a single place (your program start point is the best
one, packages like [unify-config](https://www.npmjs.com/package/unify-config)
allow to unify it agregate it from CLI arguments, environment variables and npm
config defaults) and pass it as needed to the internal components and subsystems
using constructors and functions arguments. In case your module just only export
a single object (like a Express `Router`) or a bunch of static functions,
instead of moving around the config continually, you can use the
[Factory pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factory_method_pattern) by
wrapping them in a function that accept that config and export it instead of the
actual object or functions.

### Secrets

- [ ] These files contain config strings, secrets, authentication tokens and
      credentials. By definition, they SHOULD NOT be in the repository with the
      code, they must be fetch from elsewhere automatically, or provided by hand

## Data flow

- [ ] Direct access to routes, instead of exporting them from `routes/index.js`

## Callbacks, Promises, Events and Streams

> **TL;DR**
>
> - Always use promises instead of callbacks, or convert them with promisify.
> - For events dispatched multiple times, use object streams instead.

Being the most of Javascript engines and environments async and non-blocking
(Node.js itself), it's a bit surprissing it didn't have mechanism to control its
async behaviour until very recently, so to be notified that an async operation
has finished, usually it's defined a callback function to be called when
completed.

Since there was no standard in Javascript about how callbacks should be defined,
a convention was started to be used in Node.js about the first callback argument
being the error (if any), leading in some places to be this called "errback"
(*error callback*), and becaming a *de-facto* standard. Having the error as
first argument not only helps to unify where to look for errors, but also force
users to have always present the fact that operations can fail. Problem is,
errbacks are not a language standard feature, nor force users to use them, so
errors can be ignored and silenced, for example by using an empty function as
errback.

To solve that, the [Promises A+](https://promisesaplus.com/) spec was created
inspired by Node.js errbacks, that later got into Javascript language itself as
native Promises. These offer a way to get notified when an async operation has
finished, but instead of directly register the errback function, the async
operation return a Promise object, and you register success or failure callbacks
to it. This allow not only for a cleaner API (if you need to do a sequence of
async operations, you don't need to use nested errbacks, but instead you can
chain Promises), but also being a standard you can use Promises returned by
functions from several libraries at the same time, having a single point where
to capture their errors, or if not defined Node.js itself will blame about them,
so it's not possible to silence errors if not done explicitly, leading to more
secure code.

Don't merge promises and callbacks
promisify

In browsers, events was only intented to be
binded to DOM elements, but there was no equivalent for "code events", so in
Node.js they were mimicked with the [events](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html)
built in module.





## Errors handling

early error exit (return, throw, continue, break...)
- [ ] Use "early return" design for errors instead of an `else` branch

Single error handler
Don't log errors, throw them and catch them in caller function

Don't return objects with an error field, throw errors or reject promises
Don't use objects with error field, use correct http statuses

- [ ] Capturing `404` errors and forwarding to error handler, this is the same
      as `express` default behaviour, remove it
- [ ] Use requests handlers `next` callback to pass errors to central errors
      handler instead of manage errors in each case by hand
- [ ] Callback `error` argument must not be ignored

## Logging

log result in a single place, or very few places, at most high level as possible
bunyan as logger

## Code architecture

split logic from interface (express, fastify)
- [ ] Application logic directly on routes handlers, abstract it to a core class

standard error responses
- [ ] Use correct HTTP error status for the returned errors
- [ ] There's no need to use HTML templates for a pure API server receiving and
      sending JSON objects, remove them
